-> What is Data?
Ans. The fundamental definition of data can be thought of came from the history of communication and memory. Whatever can be shared in a communication and can be stored is data. Data need not be meaningful and make sense. But if it does, we call it information. Not only this, even if data doesn't make any logic and sense as seen individually, it may does if we see it collectively or from a wider pov. For example, In a communication between two people, they may alternatively dictating vowels to each other. Vowels are nothing but sounds. These sounds as if heard doesn't make any sense and meaning but still they are separately classified as vowels as they collectively makes sense and are necessary in a language.

In the world of computer science we use data and information interchangebly but they are indeed different. We are at the point already where we can modulate information into signals which are physical quantities that can physically travel from one point to another. As we took the example above, the data was shared through sound. So, it is a point to remember that information needs a way to convey itself (that is obviously acceptable by us). Pictures, audios, videos are ways to convey information or even data.

This is the best moment to dive into "what actually data is?". The most fundamental and scientific way of defining "data" (at least according to me) is to say that data is "anything that can be stored/recorded/captured". But, this is not complete. What do I mean by anything and how can I store it?

By "anything" I literally mean anything. But what is anything? Time and Space are two concepts that are not absolute. They may exist and may not exist depending upon our speed. The existence and non existence or say happening and not happening of anything is called "state" or "event". I could call "state" itself "data" but one more thing we are missing. See, there's no purpose of all of this if there's only one observer and so we require at least two participants to at least share or convey to each other what "state" is. The physical things that are used to convey the states completely must be called "data units" and yes "data" is just the collection of these units. Store/Record means "being able to be used to convey". Hence, data is nothing but collection of physical things that can convey a state and so this completes our sentence to "data is anything that is able to be used to convey"

One thing should be realised here is that "data" is not itself the thing which it conveys. Data is a thing that conveys anothing thing. There's a difference between "conveying" and "having meaning". Data always convey something but may not be meaningful or useful. Meaningful or useful data is called information.

Further, collection of related information is called a database (infobase to be specific). But again, not every collection of information means a database fundamentally. We can think of it as the same analogy between just data and meaningful data (info). Info obviously has a purpose and extracting info out of collection of data is a skill as it requires finding pattern or relation. At the least, info is, to be just stored, or to make an attention. Similary, collecting information has a purpose. That purpose is the actual pillar holding the definition of database. For example, collection of all the meaningful text in a book may indeed make sense, but is not a database as the purpose is vague. While, authors make Index of the book and with a good purpose which is navigation and so is a database.

NOTE: Throughout the notes, I will try to generalize the concepts and make them as fundamental as possible, but, the Key points may majorly contain the technical pov of the same.

Key Points:

-> Data can be thought of anything that can be stored/captured/recorded.

-> A data can be of many types like, images, videos, text, numbers, etc.