What are APIs? It took me a lot of time to understand about them. I was familiar about packages and modules in python. So they provide us to use pre built tools without caring much about how they do it. That's one of the way of describing APIs too. And this similiar definition made me believe that APIs are nothing but modules and Packages in JavaScript. But, still I had the doubt because they didn't look like a package or module. I hear people saying "calling an API" and many more. What does calling an API means? Either I was wrong, or they, in understanding what API is.

Now i know what API is and i think that's one of the fascinating thing i understood in Computer Science.  This discussion is more specific to Web development perspective. An example will be great to begin with. In physics, an information can be transferred from one point to another in many ways. Depending upon the channel, the modulation of the information is done. Like an electrical signal is modulated into light and transmitted through optical fibre and re modulated into desired format. API can be explained in the same way.

Suppose we wrote a program in many language. The client requests for some information. What are the sources from where we can fetch this info? Okay leave that! How can the program request and response on behalf of the client? See, if everything is made in same programming language, this question may feel worthless. But what about if two different programming languages are there. How will one understand the other? That's where we need translators or say a universal/standard language. Every programming language is taught this standard language and through this standard language they can communicate. Obviously this is a better way instead of being taught the language of every other language. 

Now, when the client request for some resources, the program make a request to the source of the resource (or where the resource exists). The source respond into some format that must be decoded to extract the resource. The API is the set of tools (most probably functions) and  the format of information being exchanged. 